---
layout: single
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications_zy/
author_profile: true
---

# Under-review Articles (Corresponding<sup>\*</sup>, Co-First<sup>\#</sup>)

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

---
# Peer-reviewed Articles (Corresponding<sup>\*</sup>, Co-First<sup>\#</sup>)

(27) Travis, K. R.<sup>\*</sup>; Nault, B. A.; Crawford, J. H.; Kim, H.; Chen, Q.; **Zheng, Y.**; Liu, T.; Jimenez, J. L.; Campuzano-Jost, P.; Wennberg, P. O.; Crounse, J. D.; and Huey, L. G.: Year-round analysis of multiphase sulfate production in aerosol particles in East Asia, *Environ Sci Technol Air*. (2025) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsestair.5c00136)<br>
(26) Ma, Y.; Sheng, M.; Shang, J.<sup>\*</sup>; Tang, R.; Cao, J.; Liu, Y.; Liang, C.; Kuang, Y.; **Zheng, Y.**; Cheng, Z.; Cheung, R. K. Y.; Modini, R. L.; El-Haddad, I.; Prévôt, A. S. H.; Qiu, X.; Chen, Q.; and Zhu, T.: Dithiothreitol oxidative potential (OP) of PM2.5 in Beijing: Quantitative contribution of metals to OP and its prediction based on machine learning models, *J Hazard Mater* (2025) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2025.139471)<br>
(25) Chen, Q.<sup>\*, #</sup>; Miao, R.<sup>\#</sup>; Geng, G.<sup>\#</sup>; Shrivastava, M.; Dao, X.; Xu, B.; Sun, J.; Zhang, X.; Liu, M.; Tang, G.; Tang, Q.; Hu, H.; Huang, R.-J.; Wang, H.; **Zheng, Y.**; Qin, Y.; Guo, S.; Hu, M.; and Zhu, T.: Widespread 2013-2020 decreases and reduction challenges of organic aerosol in China. *Nature Communications*. (2024) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-48902-0)<br>
(24) Cheng, X.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, Y. J.<sup>\*</sup>; Huang, G.; Liu, Y.; Lu, S.; **Zheng, Y.**; Qiu, W.; Lu, K.; Qiu, X.; Bianchi, F.; Yan, C.; Yuan, B.; Shao, M.; Wang, Z.; Canagaratna, M. R.; Zhu, T.; Wu, Y.; Zeng, L.: Oxygenated organic molecules produced by low-NOx photooxidation of aromatic compounds and their contributions to secondary organic aerosol, *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2024) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-24-2099-2024)<br>
(23) Cheung, R. K. Y.; Qi, L.; Manousakas, M. I.; Puthussery, J. V.; **Zheng, Y.**; Koenig, T. K.; Cui, T.; Wang, T.; Ge, Y.; Wei, G.; Kuang, Y.; Sheng, M.; Cheng, Z.; Li, A.; Li, Z.; Ran, W.; Xu, W.; Zhang, R.; Han, Y.; Wang, Q.; Wang, Z.; Sun, Y.; Cao, J.; Slowik, J. G.; Dällenbach, K. R.; Verma, V.; Gysel-Beer, M.; Qiu, X.; Chen, Q.; Shang, J.; El-Haddad, I.; Prévôt, A. S. H.<sup>\*</sup>; and Modini, R. L.<sup>\*</sup>: Major source categories of PM2.5 oxidative potential in wintertime Beijing and surroundings based on online dithiothreitol-based field measurements. *Sci Total Environ*. (2024) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.172345)<br>
(22) Cheng, Z.; Qiu, X.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, A.; Chai, Q.; Shi, X.; Ge, Y.; Koenig, T. K.; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, S.; Hu, M.; Ye, C.; Cheung, R. K. Y.; Modini, R. L.; Chen, Q.; Shang, J.; and Zhu, T.: Heterogeneous reactions significantly contribute to the atmospheric formation of nitrated aromatic compounds during the haze episode in urban Beijing. *Sci Total Environ*. (2024) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.170612)<br>
(21) **Zheng Y**, Miao, R., Zhang, Q., Li, Y., Cheng, X., Liao, K., Koenig, T. K., Ge, Y., Tang, L., Shang, D., Hu, M., Chen, S., and Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>: Secondary formation of submicron and supermicron organic and inorganic aerosols in a highly polluted urban area. *J Geophys Res Atmos*. (2023) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1029/2022JD037865)<br>
(20) Shi, X.; Qiu, X.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, A.; Jiang, X.; Wei, G.; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, Q.; Chen, S.; Hu, M.; Rudich, Y.; and Zhu, T.: Polar nitrated aromatic compounds in urban fine particulate matter: a focus on formation via an aqueous-phase radical mechanism. *Environ Sci Technol*. (2023) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.2c07324)<br>
(19) Cai, J.<sup>\#</sup>; Daellenbach, K. R.<sup>\*, #</sup>; Wu, C.; **Zheng, Y.**; Zheng, F.; Du, W.; Haslett, S. L.; Chen, Q.; Kulmala, M.; and Mohr, C.<sup>\*</sup>: Characterization of offline analysis of particulate matter with FIGAERO-CIMS. *Atmos Meas Tech*. (2023) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-16-1147-2023)<br>
(18) Li, A.; Shi, X.; Qiu, X.<sup>\*</sup>; Wei, G.; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, Q.; Chen, S.; Hu, M.; and Zhu, T.: Organosulfur compounds in ambient fine particulate matter in an urban region: Findings of a nontargeted approach. *Sci Total Environ*. (2023) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2023.164114)<br>
(17) Khuzestani, R. B.; Liao, K.; Liu, Y.; Miao, R.; **Zheng, Y.**; Cheng, X.; Jia, T.; Li, X.; Chen, S.; Huang, G.; and Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>: Spatial variability of air pollutants in a megacity characterized by mobile measurements. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2022) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-22-7389-2022)<br>
(16) **Zheng Y**, Chen Q<sup>\*</sup>, Cheng, X., Mohr, C., Cai, J., Huang, W., Shrivastava, M., Ye, P. L., Fu, P. Q., Shi, X. D., Ge, Y. L., Liao, K. R., Miao, R. Q., Qiu, X. H., Koenig, T. K., and Chen, S. Y.: Precursors and pathways leading to enhanced secondary organic aerosol formation during severe haze episodes. *Environ Sci Technol*. (2021) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c04255)<br>
(15) Miao, R.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; Shrivastava, M.; Chen, Y.; Zhang, L.; Hu, J.; **Zheng, Y.**; and Liao, K.: Process-based and observation-constrained SOA simulations in China: the role of semivolatile and intermediate-volatility organic compounds and OH levels. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2021) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-21-16183-2021)<br>
(14) Cheng, X.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, Y. J.<sup>\*</sup>; **Zheng, Y.**; Liao, K.; and Huang, G.: Highly oxygenated organic molecules produced by the oxidation of benzene and toluene in a wide range of OH exposure and NOx conditions. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2021) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-21-12005-2021)<br>
(13) Cheng, X.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, Y. J.; Huang, G.; Liu, Y.; Lu, S.; **Zheng, Y.**; Qiu, W.; Lu, K.; Qiu, X.; Bianchi, F.; Yan, C.; Yuan, B.; Shao, M.; Wang, Z.; Canagaratna, M. R.; Zhu, T.; Wu, Y.; and Zeng, L.: Secondary production of gaseous nitrated phenols in polluted urban environments. *Environ Sci Technol*. (2021) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c07988)<br>
(12) Liao, K.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; Liu, Y.; Li, Y. J.; Lambe, A. T.; Zhu, T.; Huang, R. J.; **Zheng, Y.**; Cheng, X.; Miao, R.; Huang, G.; Khuzestani, R. B.; and Jia, T.: Secondary organic aerosol formation of fleet vehicle emissions in China: potential seasonality of spatial distributions. *Environ Sci Technol*. (2021) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c08591)<br>
(11) Li, Y.; Liu, B.; Ye, J.; Jia, T.; Khuzestani, R. B.; Sun, J.; Cheng, X.; **Zheng, Y.**; Li, X.; Wu, C.; Xin, J.; Wu, Z.; A., T. M.; McKinney, K. A.; Martin, S. T.; Li, Y. J.<sup>\*</sup>; and Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>: Unmanned aerial vehicle measurements of volatile organic compounds over a subtropical forest in China and implications for emission heterogeneity. *ACS Earth Space Chem*. (2021) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.0c00271)<br>
(10) **Zheng Y**, Cheng, X., Liao, K., Li, Y., Li, Y. J., Huang, R. J., Hu, W., Liu, Y., Zhu, T., Chen, S., Zeng, L., Worsnop, D. R., and Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>: Characterization of anthropogenic organic aerosols by TOF-ACSM with the new capture vaporizer. *Atmos Meas Tech*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-13-2457-2020x)<br>
(9) Miao, R.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; **Zheng, Y.**; Cheng, X.; Sun, Y.; Palmer, P. I.; Shrivastava, M.; Guo, J.; Zhang, Q.; Liu, Y.; Tan, Z.; Ma, X.; Chen, S.; Zeng, L.; Lu, K.; and Zhang, Y.: Model bias in simulating major chemical components of PM2.5 in China. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-20-12265-2020)<br>
(8) Duan, J.; Huang, R. J.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, Y.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, Y.; Lin, C.; Ni, H.; Wang, M.; Ovadnevaite, J.; Ceburnis, D.; Chen, C.; Worsnop, D. R.; Hoffmann, T.; O'Dowd, C.; and Cao, J.: Summertime and wintertime atmospheric processes of secondary aerosol in Beijing. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-20-3793-2020)<br>
(7) Huang, R. J.<sup>\*</sup>; He, Y.; Duan, J.; Li, Y. J.; Chen, Q.; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, Y.; Hu, W. W.; Lin, C. S.; Ni, H. Y.; Dai, W. T.; Cao, J. J.; Wu, Y. F.; Zhang, R. J.; Xu, W.; Ovadnevaite, J.; Ceburnis, D.; Hoffmann, T.; and O'Dowd, C. D.: Contrasting sources and processes of particulate species in haze days with low and high relative humidity in wintertime Beijing. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-20-9101-2020)<br>
(6) Gu, Y.; Huang, R. J.<sup>\*</sup>; Li, Y. J.; Duan, J.; Chen, Q.<sup>\*</sup>; Hu, W.; **Zheng, Y.**; Lin, C.; Ni, H.; Dai, W.; Cao, J.; Liu, Q.; Chen, Y.; Chen, C.; Ovadnevaite, J.; Ceburnis, D.; and O'Dowd, C.: Chemical nature and sources of fine particles in urban Beijing: Seasonality and formation mechanisms. *Environ Int*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envint.2020.105732)<br>
(5) Lin, C.; Huang, R. J.<sup>\*</sup>; Xu, W.; Duan, J.; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, Q.; Hu, W.; Li, Y. J.; Ni, H.; Wu, Y.; Zhang, R.; Cao, J.; and O'Dowd, C.: Comprehensive source apportionment of submicron aerosol in Shijiazhuang, China: secondary aerosol formation and holiday effects. *ACS Earth Space Chem*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.0c00109)<br>
(4) Zhong, H.; Huang, R. J.<sup>\*</sup>; Duan, J.; Lin, C.; Gu, Y.; Wang, Y.; Li, Y. J.; **Zheng, Y.**; Chen, Q.; Chen, Y.; Dai, W.; Ni, H.; Chang, Y.; Worsnop, D. R.; Xu, W.; Ovadnevaite, J.; Ceburnis, D.; and O'Dowd, C. D.: Seasonal variations in the sources of organic aerosol in Xi'an, Northwest China: The importance of biomass burning and secondary formation. *Sci Total Environ*. (2020) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.139666)<br>
(3) Huang, G.; Liu, Y.<sup>\*</sup>; Shao, M.; Li, Y.; Chen, Q.; **Zheng, Y.**; Wu, Z.; Liu, Y.; Wu, Y.; Hu, M.; Li, X.; Lu, S.; Wang, C.; Liu, J.; Zheng, M.; and Zhu, T.<sup>\*</sup>: Potentially important contribution of gas-phase oxidation of naphthalene and methylnaphthalene to secondary organic aerosol during haze events in Beijing. *Environ Sci Technol*. (2019) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.8b04523)<br>
(2) Duan, J.; Huang, R. J.<sup>\*</sup>; Lin, C.; Dai, W.; Wang, M.; Gu, Y.; Wang, Y.; Zhong, H.; **Zheng, Y.**; Ni, H.; Dusek, U.; Chen, Y.; Li, Y. J.; Chen, Q.; Worsnop, D. R.; O'Dowd, C. D.; and Cao, J.: Distinctions in source regions and formation mechanisms of secondary aerosol in Beijing from summer to winter. *Atmos Chem Phys*. (2019) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-19-10319-2019)<br>
(1) Wang, H.; Lu, K.<sup>\*</sup>; Chen, X.; Zhu, Q.; Chen, Q.; Guo, S.; Jiang, M.; Li, X.; Shang, D.; Tan, Z.; Wu, Y.; Wu, Z.; Zou, Q.; **Zheng, Y.**; Zeng, L.; Zhu, T.; Hu, M.; and Zhang, Y.: High N2O5 concentrations observed in urban Beijing: implications of a large nitrate formation pathway. *Environ Sci Technol Lett*. (2017) [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.estlett.7b00341<br>


---

